book/src/attributes.md, before:

# Attributes

The `#[derive(Logos)]` procedural macro recognizes four different attribute
names.

+ [`#[logos]`](./attributes/logos.md) is the main attribute which can be
  attached to the `enum` of your token definition. It allows you to define the
  `Extras` associated type in order to put custom state into the `Lexer`, or
  declare concrete types for generic type parameters, if your `enum` uses such.
  It is strictly optional.
+ [`#[error]`](./attributes/error.md) is the only mandatory attribute. It
  can be used only once and will be used for any inputs that don't produce a
  correct match with any defined pattern.
+ Last but definitely not least are the [`#[token]` and `#[regex]`](./attributes/token_and_regex.md)
  attributes. Those allow you to define patterns to match against the input,
  either plain text strings with `#[token]`, or using regular expression
  syntax with `#[regex]`. Aside from that difference, they are equivalent,
  and any extra arguments you can pass to one, you can pass to the other.

Commit message:

chore(lib/book): more lib's doc to book
Hello,

This PR proposes to move all the documentation-related content to the book, so that everything is documented in one place. This will prevent future errors that occur when the same content must be update in multiple places.

The book is not finished yet though :-)

book/src/attributes.md, after:

# Attributes

The `#[derive(Logos)]` procedural macro recognizes four different attribute
names.

+ [`#[logos]`](./attributes/logos.md) is the main attribute which can be
  attached to the `enum` of your token definition. It allows you to define the
  `Extras` associated type in order to put custom state into the `Lexer`, or
  declare concrete types for generic type parameters, if your `enum` uses such.
  It is strictly optional.
+ [`#[error]`](./attributes/error.md) is an optional attribute to be attached
  to the `enum` of your token definition. It
  can be used only once and will specify the error type returned when no variant
  is matched by the lexer.
+ Last but definitely not least are the [`#[token]` and `#[regex]`](./attributes/token_and_regex.md)
  attributes. Those allow you to define patterns to match against the input,
  either plain text strings with `#[token]`, or using regular expression
  syntax with `#[regex]`. Aside from that difference, they are equivalent,
  and any extra arguments you can pass to one, you can pass to the other.
